docs/GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

# Getting Started

This guide covers installation, Rails setup, configuration, and basic publish/consume flows.

## Install

```ruby
# Gemfile
gem "jetstream_bridge", "~> 4.0"
```

```bash
bundle install
```

## Rails Setup

Generate initializer, migrations, and optional health check:

```bash
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:install
# or separately:
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:initializer
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:migrations
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:health_check
bin/rails db:migrate
```

Generators create:

- `config/initializers/jetstream_bridge.rb`
- `db/migrate/*_create_jetstream_outbox_events.rb`
- `db/migrate/*_create_jetstream_inbox_events.rb`
- `app/controllers/jetstream_health_controller.rb` (health check)

## Configuration

```ruby
# config/initializers/jetstream_bridge.rb
JetstreamBridge.configure do |config|
  config.nats_urls       = ENV.fetch("NATS_URLS", "nats://localhost:4222")
  config.env             = ENV.fetch("RAILS_ENV", "development")
  config.app_name        = "my_app"
  config.destination_app = ENV.fetch("DESTINATION_APP")

  config.use_outbox = true  # transactional publish
  config.use_inbox  = true  # idempotent consume
  config.use_dlq    = true  # route poison messages

  # Consumer tuning
  config.max_deliver = 5
  config.ack_wait    = "30s"
  config.backoff     = %w[1s 5s 15s 30s 60s]
end
```

Rails autostart can be disabled for rake/console by `config.lazy_connect = true` or `JETSTREAM_BRIDGE_DISABLE_AUTOSTART=1`; it will connect on first publish/subscribe.

## Publish

```ruby
JetstreamBridge.publish(
  event_type: "user.created",
  resource_type: "user",
  payload: { id: user.id, email: user.email }
)
```

## Consume

```ruby
consumer = JetstreamBridge::Consumer.new do |event|
  user = event.payload
  User.upsert({ id: user["id"], email: user["email"] })
end

consumer.run!
```

## Rake Tasks

```bash
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:health         # Check health/connection
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:validate       # Validate configuration
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:test_connection# Test NATS connectivity
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:debug          # Dump debug info
```

## Next Steps

- Production hardening: [docs/PRODUCTION.md](PRODUCTION.md)
- Testing with Mock NATS: [docs/TESTING.md](TESTING.md)

Commit message:

Improve connection lifecycle and Rails integration behavior
This commit enhances the JetStream Bridge connection management and clarifies Rails integration behavior:

**Connection & Topology Management:**
- startup! now explicitly ensures topology is created during initialization
- connect_and_ensure_stream! now properly ensures topology after connecting
- Added connection check to fetch_stream_info to ensure connection is established before querying
- Exposed last_reconnect_error and last_reconnect_error_at as public diagnostic accessors

**Rails Integration:**
- Changed Rails console behavior: autostart now runs in console by default (previously skipped)
- Simplified autostart logic by removing console detection as a skip condition
- Rails autostart remains disabled only for rake tasks (unless forced)

**Documentation:**
- Clarified that configure only sets options and does not connect
- Updated docs to explain when and how connection actually occurs
- Added notes about startup! for non-Rails applications
- Improved explanation of lazy_connect behavior in Rails

**Tests:**
- Added test coverage for topology ensuring in startup! and connect_and_ensure_stream!
- Added test for diagnostic accessors visibility
- Added test for connection initialization in stream_info
- Updated Rails integration specs to reflect new console behavior

docs/GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# Getting Started

This guide covers installation, Rails setup, configuration, and basic publish/consume flows.

## Install

```ruby
# Gemfile
gem "jetstream_bridge", "~> 4.0"
```

```bash
bundle install
```

## Rails Setup

Generate initializer, migrations, and optional health check:

```bash
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:install
# or separately:
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:initializer
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:migrations
bin/rails g jetstream_bridge:health_check
bin/rails db:migrate
```

Generators create:

- `config/initializers/jetstream_bridge.rb`
- `db/migrate/*_create_jetstream_outbox_events.rb`
- `db/migrate/*_create_jetstream_inbox_events.rb`
- `app/controllers/jetstream_health_controller.rb` (health check)

## Configuration

```ruby
# config/initializers/jetstream_bridge.rb
JetstreamBridge.configure do |config|
  config.nats_urls       = ENV.fetch("NATS_URLS", "nats://localhost:4222")
  config.env             = ENV.fetch("RAILS_ENV", "development")
  config.app_name        = "my_app"
  config.destination_app = ENV.fetch("DESTINATION_APP")

  config.use_outbox = true  # transactional publish
  config.use_inbox  = true  # idempotent consume
  config.use_dlq    = true  # route poison messages

  # Consumer tuning
  config.max_deliver = 5
  config.ack_wait    = "30s"
  config.backoff     = %w[1s 5s 15s 30s 60s]
end

# Note: `configure` only sets options; it does not connect. Rails will start
# JetstreamBridge after initialization via the Railtie. For non-Rails or custom
# boot flows, call `JetstreamBridge.startup!` (or rely on auto-connect on first
# publish/subscribe).
```

Rails autostart runs after initialization (including in console). You can opt out for rake tasks or other tooling with `config.lazy_connect = true` or `JETSTREAM_BRIDGE_DISABLE_AUTOSTART=1`; it will then connect on first publish/subscribe.

## Publish

```ruby
JetstreamBridge.publish(
  event_type: "user.created",
  resource_type: "user",
  payload: { id: user.id, email: user.email }
)
```

## Consume

```ruby
consumer = JetstreamBridge::Consumer.new do |event|
  user = event.payload
  User.upsert({ id: user["id"], email: user["email"] })
end

consumer.run!
```

## Rake Tasks

```bash
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:health         # Check health/connection
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:validate       # Validate configuration
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:test_connection# Test NATS connectivity
bin/rake jetstream_bridge:debug          # Dump debug info
```

## Next Steps

- Production hardening: [docs/PRODUCTION.md](PRODUCTION.md)
- Testing with Mock NATS: [docs/TESTING.md](TESTING.md)
